README.md, before:

# Django DaVinci Crawler project template

This is a simple DaVinci Crawling project template with the preferred setup. 

We can use this project template to implement crawlers or to setup a project with multiple crawlers all together in the same RESTful API. 

This template has also support for Docker and is also optimized for Google App Engine deployments.

## Features

- [Caravaggio REST API Framework](https://github.com/preseries/django-caravaggio-rest-api) (Django 2.0+, DRF, DataStax/Cassandra)
- [DaVinci Crawling Framwework](https://github.com/preseries/django-davinci-crawling) 
- PostgreSQL database support with psycopg2.
- DataStax database support with DSE Driver
- Get value insight and debug information while on Development with django-debug-toolbar.
- Collection of custom extensions with django-extensions.
- HTTPS and other security related settings on Staging and Production.
- Docker image
- Google App Engine deployment support (custom environment)


## Environment Setup

We need to prepare the environment to install and execute the crawler.

We need to install, configure and start the following services:
 
- DataStax Enterprise 6.x
- PostgreSQL 9.6
- Redis 3

To do that we can follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/preseries/django-caravaggio-rest-api/blob/master/docs/local_environment.md). 

Once the previous services are ready, we can proceed with the installation.

## How to create a new project

Follow the next instructions to create a new crawler based on this project template:

```
$ conda create -n myproject pip python=3.7
$ conda activate myproject

$ pip install django>=2

$ django-admin.py startproject \
  --template=https://github.com/preseries/davinci-crawling-template-project/archive/master.zip \
  --name=Dockerfile \
  --extension=py,md,env,sh,template,yamltemplate,ini,conf,json \
  myproject
  
$ cd myproject

$ python setup.py develop
```

__NOTE__: by default we are using the `dse-driver` to connect to cassandra or DataStax Enterprise. If you want to use `cassandra-driver` edit `setup.py` and change the dependency.

__NOTE__: the installation of the dependencies will take some time because the `dse-driver` or `cassandra-driver` has to be compiled.


### Test crawler

If you want to use the Bovespa test crawler that comes with `davinci-crawling`, you should edit the `settings.py file and add davinci_crawling.example.bovespa` to the list of `INSTALLED_APPS`, just after the `davinci_crawling` application.

```python
# Application definition
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'django_cassandra_engine',
    'django_cassandra_engine.sessions',
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    # 'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.sites',
    'django.contrib.messages',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    # Uncomment the next line to enable the admin:
    'django.contrib.admin',
    # Uncomment the next line to enable admin documentation:
    'django.contrib.admindocs',

    'django_extensions',
    'debug_toolbar',

    'rest_framework',
    'rest_framework.authtoken',
    'rest_framework_cache',
    'rest_framework_swagger',

    'haystack',
    'caravaggio_rest_api',
    'davinci_crawling',
    'davinci_crawling.example.bovespa',
    'myproject'
]
```


### Setup the databases

Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/preseries/django-caravaggio-rest-api/blob/master/docs/local_environment.md) to prepare your backend for development.

In this step we are going to populate the databases and its tables. The default database is a PostgreSQL (you can change it) and then we also have the cassandra database, that can be a Cassandra or DSE server.

You can change the SQL server editing the dependencies in the `setup.py` and changing the `psycopg2-binary` library by the one that contains the drivers to connect to your backend. You should configure the connection in the `DATABASES` parameter of the `settings.py` of the project. 

Once the database services are ready, we can populate the database and its tables running the following instruction:

```
$ python manage.py migrate

Operations to perform:
  Apply all migrations: admin, auth, authtoken, contenttypes, sites
Running migrations:
  Applying contenttypes.0001_initial... OK
  Applying auth.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0002_logentry_remove_auto_add... OK
  Applying admin.0003_logentry_add_action_flag_choices... OK
  Applying contenttypes.0002_remove_content_type_name... OK
  Applying auth.0002_alter_permission_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0003_alter_user_email_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0004_alter_user_username_opts... OK
  Applying auth.0005_alter_user_last_login_null... OK
  Applying auth.0006_require_contenttypes_0002... OK
  Applying auth.0007_alter_validators_add_error_messages... OK
  Applying auth.0008_alter_user_username_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0009_alter_user_last_name_max_length... OK
  Applying authtoken.0001_initial... OK
  Applying authtoken.0002_auto_20160226_1747... OK
  Applying sites.0001_initial... OK
  Applying sites.0002_alter_domain_unique... OK
  ```

Populate the DataStax Enterprise (DSE) or Cassandra database:

```
$ python manage.py sync_cassandra

Creating keyspace myproject [CONNECTION cassandra] ..
Syncing django_cassandra_engine.sessions.models.Session
Syncing davinci_crawling.models.Checkpoint
Syncing myproject.models.MyprojectResource
```

Populate the DataStax Enterprise (DSE) search indexes. This feature is only available for a DSE configuration:

```
$ python manage.py sync_indexes

INFO Creating indexes in myproject4 [CONNECTION cassandra] ..
INFO Creating index %s.%s
INFO Index class associated to te model myproject.models.MyprojectResourceIndex
INFO Creating SEARCH INDEX if not exists for model: <class 'django_cassandra_engine.models.MyprojectResource'>
INFO Setting index parameters: realtime = true
INFO Setting index parameters: autoCommitTime = 100
INFO Setting index parameters: ramBufferSize = 2048
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(situation)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'situation' [[[situation{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[situation{type=StrField,properties=indexed,stored,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]]"
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(name)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'name' [[[name{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[name{type=StrField,properties=indexed,stored,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]]"
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(short_description)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'short_description' [[[short_description{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[short_description{type=TextField,properties=indexed,tokenized,stored}]]]"
INFO Changing SEARCH INDEX field short_description to TextField
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(long_description)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'long_description' [[[long_description{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[long_description{type=TextField,properties=indexed,tokenized,stored}]]]"
...
...
```

### Generatic the static files

We have some django extensions and the debug toolbar installed in DEBUG mode. In order to them work we need to generate the static files.

```
$ python manage.py collectstatic
``` 

The output should be something like:

```
You have requested to collect static files at the destination
location as specified in your settings:

    /...../myproject/static

This will overwrite existing files!
Are you sure you want to do this?

Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel: yes

0 static files copied to '/..../myproject/static', 184 unmodified.
```

### Setup the admin user

Let's create the admin user with its own auth token

```
$ python manage.py createsuperuser --username _myproject --email myproject@preseries.com --noinput
$ python manage.py changepassword _myproject
Changing password for user '_myproject'
Password: 
```

A token will be created automatically for the user. We can get it back using the following request:

```
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST \
    -d '{"username": "_myproject", "password": "MY_PASSWORD"}' \
    http://127.0.0.1:8001/api-token-auth/
    
{"token":"b10061d0b62867d0d9e3eb4a8c8cb6a068b2f14a","user_id":1,"email":"myproject@preseries.com"}    
```

## Run the crawler

Before start the crawler we need to have ready the responses for the following questions:

- The name of our crawler. Ex. `my_crawler`

- Where is located the binary of the PhantomJS library in our local system? Ex. `/servers/phantomjs-2.1.1-macosx/bin/phantomjs`

- Where is the place in our local filesystem that is goin to be used as local - volatile - cache? Ex. `fs:///data/harvest/local`

- We are going to use Google Storage as permanent storage for our permanent cache? If yes, then we need to know the google project. Ex. `centering-badge-212119`

- The location we will use as permanent storage for our permanent cache. Ex. `gs://my_crawler_cache`

- How many workers we are going to start? Ex. `10`


After responde these questions we are ready to run the crawler: 

```
python manage.py crawl myproject \
    --workers-num 10 \
    --phantomjs-path /servers/phantomjs-2.1.1-macosx/bin/phantomjs \
    --io-gs-project centering-badge-212119 \
    --cache-dir "gs://my_crawler_cache" \
    --local-dir "fs:///data/my_crawler/local"
```

## Build the Docker image

If we want to launch the crawler/s as docker containers we will need to generate its docker image.

```
$ docker build -t preseries.com/davinci_crawler/myproject:0.1 .
```

## Run the web application using Docker

The project have been configured to run inside a docker container and Google APP Engine. 

The container is auto-sufficient, it starts the gunicorn workers, and the pgbouncer proxy for PostgreSQL.

The unique required external services are:

- Redis Server (we can start a server using docker: `docker run -d --name myproject-redis -p 6379:6379 redis:3.0`)
- PostgreSQL Server (using the `CloudSQL Proxy`, a local PostgreSQL server with or without docker, or similar)
- DataStax Enterprise or Cassandra Cluster (using production cluster, a local cluster (CCM), or similar)

To build the image we only need to execute the command:

```
docker build -t gcr.io/centering-badge-212119/myproject:0.1 .
```

After the build, if you want to remove all the intermediate images that docker generates, you can run the following command:

```
$ docker rmi $(docker images -f "dangling=true" -q)

```

We can configure our container at start setting values for some environment variables. 

Some of these variables configure the access to the external services commented before.

These are all the available environment variables we can use to customize the server:

- `SECRET_KEY`: the secret key used to generate csrf tokens and secure your forms, 
for generate authentication tokens, and secured cookies.

- `DSE_SUPPORT`: are we working using a DataStax Enterprise Cluster?

- `DEBUG`: if we want to start the Django server in Debug mode

- `THROTTLE_ENABLED`: if we activate the api throttling mechanism

- `SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT`: are we executing the sever through SSL? (https)
- `SECURE_SSL_HOST`: the SSL host name
 
- `STATIC_URL`: the url to the static resources. By default we use the resources inside the 
image (nginx). In production, for instance, we will use th GS bucket. 
Ex.`https://storage.googleapis.com/static-sky/static/`

- `REDIS_HOST_PRIMARY`: the host with a Redis server running on it
- `REDIS_PORT_PRIMARY`: the port at which the Redis server is listening for connections
- `REDIS_PASS_PRIMARY`: the password to use when connecting to the Redis server 

- `DB_HOST`: the host with the PostgreSQL server running on it 
- `DB_PORT`: the port at which the PostfreSQL server is listening for connections
- `DB_USER`: the user to use when connecting to the PostgreSQL server
- `DB_PASSWORD`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server

- `CASSANDRA_DB_HOST`: the host with the PostgreSQL server running on it 
- `CASSANDRA_DB_NAME`: the port at which the PostfreSQL server is listening for connections
- `CASSANDRA_DB_USER`: the user to use when connecting to the PostgreSQL server
- `CASSANDRA_DB_PASSWORD`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server
- `CASSANDRA_DB_STRATEGY`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server
- `CASSANDRA_DB_REPLICATION`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server

- `HAYSTACK_URL`: the URL that give us access to the DSE/Solr service to execute queries directly into Solr.
- `HAYSTACK_ADMIN_URL`: the Admin URL to the DSE/Solr service

- `GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ID`: our Google Analytics ID

- `ENV EMAIL_HOST_USER`: email user to use when sending emails
- `ENV EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD`: the password of the user used to send emails


A `environment.sh.template` can be found at the root of the project. You can rename the file to a normal shell file (.sh) and customize the values of the variables based on your own environment.

Cassandra cluster (or DSE) is usually working as a cluster in your host machine using maybe the CCM utility, not using docker. For that reason we need to create aliases to the `lo` network IPs to IPs that Docker can communicate with inside the containers.

The official docs of Docker, makes reference to an special IP This is the
IP that was referred to the official docs of docker.

This could be an example of how to start the server taking the following
assumptions into consideration:

- We have the CloudSQL Proxy service started. It registers the server in the ip
`10.200.10.1`and port `5433`.
- A Redis 3.0 server running as a container in docker listening at the standard port `6379`.
- The PreSeries API (Apian server) running in production and listening at `https://preseries.io`.  

To allow access from the sky container to the host PostgreSQL database set by
the CouldSQL Proxy we will need to do some things.

- We need to create a new lo0 IP address 10.200.10.1 to the Mac. This is the
IP that was referred to the official docs of docker.

```
sudo ifconfig lo0 alias 10.200.10.1/24
```

- We can check the new IP:

```
$ ifconfig
lo0: flags=8049<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING,MULTICAST> mtu 16384
	options=1203<RXCSUM,TXCSUM,TXSTATUS,SW_TIMESTAMP>
	inet 127.0.0.1 netmask 0xff000000 
	inet6 ::1 prefixlen 128 
	inet6 fe80::1%lo0 prefixlen 64 scopeid 0x1 
	inet 10.200.10.1 netmask 0xffffff00 
	nd6 options=201<PERFORMNUD,DAD>
```

- Once we have the IP ready we start the SQLCloud Proxy attached to this IP:

```
$ cloud_sql_proxy -instances=centering-badge-212119:europe-west1:sky-pre-s=tcp:10.200.10.1:5433
2018/08/29 19:34:02 Listening on 10.200.10.1:5433 for centering-badge-212119:europe-west1:sky-pre-s
2018/08/29 19:34:02 Ready for new connections
```

Now we are ready to start the service:

```
docker run -d --link=redis_preseries_db:redis \
    -p 8080:8080 \ 
    -e REDIS_HOST_PRIMARY='redis' \
    -e SKY_DB_HOST='10.200.10.1' \
    -e SKY_DB_PORT=5433 \
    -e DEBUG=False \
    -e COMPRESS_ENABLED=True \
    -e COMPRESS_OFFLINE=True \
    -e STATIC_URL="https://storage.googleapis.com/static-sky/static/" \
    --name sky \
    gcr.io/centering-badge-212119/sky:v2018-09
```

We can check the startup logs running the following command:

```
docker logs -f sky
```

At this moment we should have `gunicorn` listening at the `8000` port, 
a `daphne` server at `9000`, and the `nginx` at `8080`.

We can open a browser and navigate to the following url:

```
http://localhost:8080
```

__IMPORTANT__: We can use the environment variables to play with different production environments.
For instance, we can start the server in mode `Debug=True` and without `Compression=Fale` 
to debug the application simulating a production environment. We need to be careful with 
variables like the `Google Analytics ID`, if we use the production ID for testing or
developing purposes we will damage the real statistics.

## Deploy into production

To do the deployment we use the `bin/deploy.sh` script. In this script we will
find all the logic behind a deployment. Basically, the steps are done in the 
script are:

1. Prepare a `gs bucket` (Google Storage) to upload all the static files (`static-sky`).
2. Give public access to the `gs bucket`. 
3. Configure `CORS` to allow access to the static files from different origins
4. Prepare the production settings.py, setting the correct `STATIC_URL` 
for production (that uses `https://storage.googleapis.com/static-sky/static/`), the
`DEBUG` to `False`, the `COMPRESS_ENABLED` to `True`, etc.
5. Compile the Django i18n message files
6. Collect the statics to put them into the `/static` folder
7. Compress the files
8. Copy (or rsync) the static file into the `gs` bucket.
9. Prepare the `requirements.txt` file using the `requirements.txt.template` file and 
making substitutions of the Github credentials (some dependencies are private).
 
The script also accepts some arguments:

- `-p, --project-name`: the id of the google project where we want to deploy
 the application.
- `-v, --version`: the version to use for the application we want to deploy. 
GAE allows us to manage multiple versions of our application.
- `-t, --type`: the GAE deployment environment to use. Today only `flex`
 deployments are allowed, we hope we can deploy the application in a
 standard environment soon
- `-d, --debug`: if we want to deploy the application with debug enabled.

Commit message:

Describe how to create an empty  project with one crawler app. Script for compile i18n messages.

README.md, after:

# Django DaVinci Crawler project template

This is a simple DaVinci Crawling project template with the preferred setup. 

We can use this project template to implement crawlers or to setup a project with multiple crawlers all together in the same RESTful API. 

This template has also support for Docker and is also optimized for Google App Engine deployments.

## Features

- [Caravaggio REST API Framework](https://github.com/preseries/django-caravaggio-rest-api) (Django 2.0+, DRF, DataStax/Cassandra)
- [DaVinci Crawling Framwework](https://github.com/preseries/django-davinci-crawling) 
- PostgreSQL database support with psycopg2.
- DataStax database support with DSE Driver
- Get value insight and debug information while on Development with django-debug-toolbar.
- Collection of custom extensions with django-extensions.
- HTTPS and other security related settings on Staging and Production.
- Docker image
- Google App Engine deployment support (custom environment)


## Environment Setup

We need to prepare the environment to install and execute the crawler.

We need to install, configure and start the following services:
 
- DataStax Enterprise 6.x
- PostgreSQL 9.6
- Redis 3

To do that we can follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/preseries/django-caravaggio-rest-api/blob/master/docs/local_environment.md). 

Once the previous services are ready, we can proceed with the installation.

## How to create a new project

Follow the next instructions to create a new crawling project with one crawler:

```
$ conda create -n myproject pip python=3.7
$ conda activate myproject

$ pip install django>=2

$ django-admin.py startproject \
  --template=https://github.com/preseries/davinci-crawling-project-template/archive/master.zip \
  --name=Dockerfile \
  --extension=py,md,env,sh,template,yamltemplate,ini,conf,json \
  myproject
  
$ cd myproject

$ python manage.py startapp \
   --template=https://github.com/preseries/davinci-crawling-app-template/archive/master.zip \
   --extension=py,md,env,sh,template,yamltemplate,ini,conf,json \
   twitter
   
$ python setup.py develop
```

__NOTE__: by default we are using the `dse-driver` to connect to cassandra or DataStax Enterprise. If you want to use `cassandra-driver` edit `setup.py` and change the dependency.

__NOTE__: the installation of the dependencies will take some time because the `dse-driver` or `cassandra-driver` has to be compiled.

We can add as many crawlers as we want.

### Test crawler

If you want to use the Bovespa test crawler that comes with `davinci-crawling`, you should edit the `settings.py file and add davinci_crawling.example.bovespa` to the list of `INSTALLED_APPS`, just after the `davinci_crawling` application.

```python
# Application definition
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'django_cassandra_engine',
    'django_cassandra_engine.sessions',
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    # 'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.sites',
    'django.contrib.messages',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    # Uncomment the next line to enable the admin:
    'django.contrib.admin',
    # Uncomment the next line to enable admin documentation:
    'django.contrib.admindocs',

    'django_extensions',
    'debug_toolbar',

    'rest_framework',
    'rest_framework.authtoken',
    'rest_framework_cache',
    'rest_framework_swagger',

    'haystack',
    'caravaggio_rest_api',
    'davinci_crawling',
    'davinci_crawling.example.bovespa',
    'myproject'
]
```


### Setup the databases

Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/preseries/django-caravaggio-rest-api/blob/master/docs/local_environment.md) to prepare your backend for development.

In this step we are going to populate the databases and its tables. The default database is a PostgreSQL (you can change it) and then we also have the cassandra database, that can be a Cassandra or DSE server.

You can change the SQL server editing the dependencies in the `setup.py` and changing the `psycopg2-binary` library by the one that contains the drivers to connect to your backend. You should configure the connection in the `DATABASES` parameter of the `settings.py` of the project. 

Once the database services are ready, we can populate the database and its tables running the following instruction:

```
$ python manage.py migrate

Operations to perform:
  Apply all migrations: admin, auth, authtoken, contenttypes, sites
Running migrations:
  Applying contenttypes.0001_initial... OK
  Applying auth.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0001_initial... OK
  Applying admin.0002_logentry_remove_auto_add... OK
  Applying admin.0003_logentry_add_action_flag_choices... OK
  Applying contenttypes.0002_remove_content_type_name... OK
  Applying auth.0002_alter_permission_name_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0003_alter_user_email_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0004_alter_user_username_opts... OK
  Applying auth.0005_alter_user_last_login_null... OK
  Applying auth.0006_require_contenttypes_0002... OK
  Applying auth.0007_alter_validators_add_error_messages... OK
  Applying auth.0008_alter_user_username_max_length... OK
  Applying auth.0009_alter_user_last_name_max_length... OK
  Applying authtoken.0001_initial... OK
  Applying authtoken.0002_auto_20160226_1747... OK
  Applying sites.0001_initial... OK
  Applying sites.0002_alter_domain_unique... OK
  ```

Populate the DataStax Enterprise (DSE) or Cassandra database:

```
$ python manage.py sync_cassandra

Creating keyspace myproject [CONNECTION cassandra] ..
Syncing django_cassandra_engine.sessions.models.Session
Syncing davinci_crawling.models.Checkpoint
Syncing myproject.models.MyprojectResource
```

Populate the DataStax Enterprise (DSE) search indexes. This feature is only available for a DSE configuration:

```
$ python manage.py sync_indexes

INFO Creating indexes in myproject4 [CONNECTION cassandra] ..
INFO Creating index %s.%s
INFO Index class associated to te model myproject.models.MyprojectResourceIndex
INFO Creating SEARCH INDEX if not exists for model: <class 'django_cassandra_engine.models.MyprojectResource'>
INFO Setting index parameters: realtime = true
INFO Setting index parameters: autoCommitTime = 100
INFO Setting index parameters: ramBufferSize = 2048
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(situation)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'situation' [[[situation{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[situation{type=StrField,properties=indexed,stored,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]]"
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(name)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'name' [[[name{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[name{type=StrField,properties=indexed,stored,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]]"
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(short_description)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'short_description' [[[short_description{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[short_description{type=TextField,properties=indexed,tokenized,stored}]]]"
INFO Changing SEARCH INDEX field short_description to TextField
INFO Processing field field <class 'haystack.fields.CharField'>(long_description)
WARNING Maybe te field has been already defined in the schema. Cause: Error from server: code=2200 [Invalid query] message="The search index schema is not valid because: Can't load schema schema.xml: [schema.xml] Duplicate field definition for 'long_description' [[[long_description{type=StrField,properties=indexed,omitNorms,omitTermFreqAndPositions}]]] and [[[long_description{type=TextField,properties=indexed,tokenized,stored}]]]"
...
...
```

### Generatic the static files

We have some django extensions and the debug toolbar installed in DEBUG mode. In order to them work we need to generate the static files.

```
$ python manage.py collectstatic
``` 

The output should be something like:

```
You have requested to collect static files at the destination
location as specified in your settings:

    /...../myproject/static

This will overwrite existing files!
Are you sure you want to do this?

Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel: yes

0 static files copied to '/..../myproject/static', 184 unmodified.
```

### Setup the admin user

Let's create the admin user with its own auth token

```
$ python manage.py createsuperuser --username _myproject --email myproject@preseries.com --noinput
$ python manage.py changepassword _myproject
Changing password for user '_myproject'
Password: 
```

A token will be created automatically for the user. We can get it back using the following request:

```
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST \
    -d '{"username": "_myproject", "password": "MY_PASSWORD"}' \
    http://127.0.0.1:8001/api-token-auth/
    
{"token":"b10061d0b62867d0d9e3eb4a8c8cb6a068b2f14a","user_id":1,"email":"myproject@preseries.com"}    
```

## Run the crawler

Before start the crawler we need to have ready the responses for the following questions:

- The name of our crawler. Ex. `my_crawler`

- Where is located the binary of the PhantomJS library in our local system? Ex. `/servers/phantomjs-2.1.1-macosx/bin/phantomjs`

- Where is the place in our local filesystem that is goin to be used as local - volatile - cache? Ex. `fs:///data/harvest/local`

- We are going to use Google Storage as permanent storage for our permanent cache? If yes, then we need to know the google project. Ex. `centering-badge-212119`

- The location we will use as permanent storage for our permanent cache. Ex. `gs://my_crawler_cache`

- How many workers we are going to start? Ex. `10`


After responde these questions we are ready to run the crawler: 

```
python manage.py crawl myproject \
    --workers-num 10 \
    --phantomjs-path /servers/phantomjs-2.1.1-macosx/bin/phantomjs \
    --io-gs-project centering-badge-212119 \
    --cache-dir "gs://my_crawler_cache" \
    --local-dir "fs:///data/my_crawler/local"
```

## Build the Docker image

If we want to launch the crawler/s as docker containers we will need to generate its docker image.

```
$ docker build -t preseries.com/davinci_crawler/myproject:0.1 .
```

## Run the web application using Docker

The project have been configured to run inside a docker container and Google APP Engine. 

The container is auto-sufficient, it starts the gunicorn workers, and the pgbouncer proxy for PostgreSQL.

The unique required external services are:

- Redis Server (we can start a server using docker: `docker run -d --name myproject-redis -p 6379:6379 redis:3.0`)
- PostgreSQL Server (using the `CloudSQL Proxy`, a local PostgreSQL server with or without docker, or similar)
- DataStax Enterprise or Cassandra Cluster (using production cluster, a local cluster (CCM), or similar)

To build the image we only need to execute the command:

```
docker build -t gcr.io/centering-badge-212119/myproject:0.1 .
```

After the build, if you want to remove all the intermediate images that docker generates, you can run the following command:

```
$ docker rmi $(docker images -f "dangling=true" -q)

```

We can configure our container at start setting values for some environment variables. 

Some of these variables configure the access to the external services commented before.

These are all the available environment variables we can use to customize the server:

- `SECRET_KEY`: the secret key used to generate csrf tokens and secure your forms, 
for generate authentication tokens, and secured cookies.

- `DSE_SUPPORT`: are we working using a DataStax Enterprise Cluster?

- `DEBUG`: if we want to start the Django server in Debug mode

- `THROTTLE_ENABLED`: if we activate the api throttling mechanism

- `SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT`: are we executing the sever through SSL? (https)
- `SECURE_SSL_HOST`: the SSL host name
 
- `STATIC_URL`: the url to the static resources. By default we use the resources inside the 
image (nginx). In production, for instance, we will use th GS bucket. 
Ex.`https://storage.googleapis.com/static-sky/static/`

- `REDIS_HOST_PRIMARY`: the host with a Redis server running on it
- `REDIS_PORT_PRIMARY`: the port at which the Redis server is listening for connections
- `REDIS_PASS_PRIMARY`: the password to use when connecting to the Redis server 

- `DB_HOST`: the host with the PostgreSQL server running on it 
- `DB_PORT`: the port at which the PostfreSQL server is listening for connections
- `DB_USER`: the user to use when connecting to the PostgreSQL server
- `DB_PASSWORD`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server

- `CASSANDRA_DB_HOST`: the host with the PostgreSQL server running on it 
- `CASSANDRA_DB_NAME`: the port at which the PostfreSQL server is listening for connections
- `CASSANDRA_DB_USER`: the user to use when connecting to the PostgreSQL server
- `CASSANDRA_DB_PASSWORD`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server
- `CASSANDRA_DB_STRATEGY`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server
- `CASSANDRA_DB_REPLICATION`: the password of the user we use to connect to the PostgreSL server

- `HAYSTACK_URL`: the URL that give us access to the DSE/Solr service to execute queries directly into Solr.
- `HAYSTACK_ADMIN_URL`: the Admin URL to the DSE/Solr service

- `GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ID`: our Google Analytics ID

- `ENV EMAIL_HOST_USER`: email user to use when sending emails
- `ENV EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD`: the password of the user used to send emails


A `environment.sh.template` can be found at the root of the project. You can rename the file to a normal shell file (.sh) and customize the values of the variables based on your own environment.

Cassandra cluster (or DSE) is usually working as a cluster in your host machine using maybe the CCM utility, not using docker. For that reason we need to create aliases to the `lo` network IPs to IPs that Docker can communicate with inside the containers.

The official docs of Docker, makes reference to an special IP This is the
IP that was referred to the official docs of docker.

This could be an example of how to start the server taking the following
assumptions into consideration:

- We have the CloudSQL Proxy service started. It registers the server in the ip
`10.200.10.1`and port `5433`.
- A Redis 3.0 server running as a container in docker listening at the standard port `6379`.
- The PreSeries API (Apian server) running in production and listening at `https://preseries.io`.  

To allow access from the sky container to the host PostgreSQL database set by
the CouldSQL Proxy we will need to do some things.

- We need to create a new lo0 IP address 10.200.10.1 to the Mac. This is the
IP that was referred to the official docs of docker.

```
sudo ifconfig lo0 alias 10.200.10.1/24
```

- We can check the new IP:

```
$ ifconfig
lo0: flags=8049<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING,MULTICAST> mtu 16384
	options=1203<RXCSUM,TXCSUM,TXSTATUS,SW_TIMESTAMP>
	inet 127.0.0.1 netmask 0xff000000 
	inet6 ::1 prefixlen 128 
	inet6 fe80::1%lo0 prefixlen 64 scopeid 0x1 
	inet 10.200.10.1 netmask 0xffffff00 
	nd6 options=201<PERFORMNUD,DAD>
```

- Once we have the IP ready we start the SQLCloud Proxy attached to this IP:

```
$ cloud_sql_proxy -instances=centering-badge-212119:europe-west1:sky-pre-s=tcp:10.200.10.1:5433
2018/08/29 19:34:02 Listening on 10.200.10.1:5433 for centering-badge-212119:europe-west1:sky-pre-s
2018/08/29 19:34:02 Ready for new connections
```

Now we are ready to start the service:

```
docker run -d --link=redis_preseries_db:redis \
    -p 8080:8080 \ 
    -e REDIS_HOST_PRIMARY='redis' \
    -e SKY_DB_HOST='10.200.10.1' \
    -e SKY_DB_PORT=5433 \
    -e DEBUG=False \
    -e COMPRESS_ENABLED=True \
    -e COMPRESS_OFFLINE=True \
    -e STATIC_URL="https://storage.googleapis.com/static-sky/static/" \
    --name sky \
    gcr.io/centering-badge-212119/sky:v2018-09
```

We can check the startup logs running the following command:

```
docker logs -f sky
```

At this moment we should have `gunicorn` listening at the `8000` port, 
a `daphne` server at `9000`, and the `nginx` at `8080`.

We can open a browser and navigate to the following url:

```
http://localhost:8080
```

__IMPORTANT__: We can use the environment variables to play with different production environments.
For instance, we can start the server in mode `Debug=True` and without `Compression=Fale` 
to debug the application simulating a production environment. We need to be careful with 
variables like the `Google Analytics ID`, if we use the production ID for testing or
developing purposes we will damage the real statistics.

## Deploy into production

To do the deployment we use the `bin/deploy.sh` script. In this script we will
find all the logic behind a deployment. Basically, the steps are done in the 
script are:

1. Prepare a `gs bucket` (Google Storage) to upload all the static files (`static-sky`).
2. Give public access to the `gs bucket`. 
3. Configure `CORS` to allow access to the static files from different origins
4. Prepare the production settings.py, setting the correct `STATIC_URL` 
for production (that uses `https://storage.googleapis.com/static-sky/static/`), the
`DEBUG` to `False`, the `COMPRESS_ENABLED` to `True`, etc.
5. Compile the Django i18n message files
6. Collect the statics to put them into the `/static` folder
7. Compress the files
8. Copy (or rsync) the static file into the `gs` bucket.
9. Prepare the `requirements.txt` file using the `requirements.txt.template` file and 
making substitutions of the Github credentials (some dependencies are private).
 
The script also accepts some arguments:

- `-p, --project-name`: the id of the google project where we want to deploy
 the application.
- `-v, --version`: the version to use for the application we want to deploy. 
GAE allows us to manage multiple versions of our application.
- `-t, --type`: the GAE deployment environment to use. Today only `flex`
 deployments are allowed, we hope we can deploy the application in a
 standard environment soon
- `-d, --debug`: if we want to deploy the application with debug enabled.
